web/models/README.md, before:

Overview
--------

These models are the interface to the underlying database. Currently all models are just Ecto schemas over a PostgreSQL database. Understanding the schemas and how they connect together is crucial to interacting with the database.


The current higher level connections are described in the model below:

```svgbob
                          +----------+
                          |  Region  |
                          +-----+----+
                                |
                                |
                                v 1
+------------+ +--------+ +-----------+ +--------------+
|  Allergen  | |  Diet  | |  Cuisine  | |  Ingredient  |
+----------+-+ +------+-+ +---+-------+ +-+------------+
           |          |       |           |
           .          |       |           .
            \         |       |          /
             \        |       |         /
              \       v M     v 1      /
               \  M +-------------+ M /
                .-->|  Item.Food  |<-.
                    +-------------+
```

An `Item.Food` can have many `Allergen`, `Diet`, and `Ingredient`, but only one `Cuisine`. These many relationships are exposed in `Item.Food.AllergenList`, `Item.Food.DietList`, and `Item.Food.IngredientList` respectively.

A `Cuisine` can have only one `Region`.


The above layout allows us to associate food with what allergies will be triggered from its consumption, what diets are allowed to consume it, what ingredients it consists of, and what style of cuisine it is. e.g. A plain pizza with ham might belong to the cuisine of type `Pizza` (which belongs to the regional style `Italian`), consists of the ingredients `mozzarella`, `ham`, `tomato sauce`, `flour`, `egg`, `yeast`, and so can't be eaten by people following any strict diet, or people with allergies to `gluten`, `egg`, and `meat`.


Translations
------------

Certain models store translatable data, this is done to allow for translatable searches for certain items and localised responses. Translations are currently implemented using the library [Translecto](https://github.com/ScrimpyCat/Translecto), for an in-depth look into how this library works see the [docs](https://hexdocs.pm/translecto/).

Translations are stored in separate models (ending with `Translation`). An example structure of these models is as follows:

```svgbob
+-----------+
| Diet      |               +-----------------------------------------+
+----+------+               | Diet.Name.Translation                   |
| id | name |               +--------------+-----------+--------------+
|----|------|               | translate_id | locale_id | term         |
| 1  | 2    +--.            |--------------|-----------|--------------|
| 2  | 3    |   \           | 1            | "en"      | "vegan"      |
+-----------+    .--------->| 2            | "en"      | "vegetarian" |
                  \         | 1            | "fr"      | "végétalien" |
                   '------->| 2            | "fr"      | "végétarien" |
                            +-----------------------------------------+
```

Where the `name` field contains the `translate_id` in the translation table. A `locale_id` is then needed to get the specific localised variant.

An example of manually querying all diet's in French could be done using the following expression:

```elixir
from diet in Diet,
    join: name in Diet.Name.Translation,
    on: diet.name == name.translate_id and name.locale_id == "fr",
    select: %{
        id: diet.id,
        name: name.term
    }
```

However the Translecto library provides a convenient interface to do the above:

```elixir
from diet in Diet,
    locale: "fr",
    translate: name in diet.name,
    select: %{
        id: diet.id,
        name: name.term
    }
```

### Locale

To translate the translatable models into a given localisation, a locale is provided. We have taken the approach of creating a model (`Bonbon.Model.Locale`) for the different locales, and they are in the format of culture codes (ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 and ISO 639-1 code).

To simplify lookup of the `locale_id`, the module provides functions to retrieve a `locale_id` for a given culture code. Two examples of this is as follows:

```elixir
from diet in Diet,
    locale: ^Locale.to_locale_id!("fr"),
    translate: name in diet.name,
    select: name.term

from diet in Diet,
    locales: ^Locale.to_locale_id_list!("en_AU"),
    translate: name in diet.name,
    select: name.term
```

Commit message:

Refer to individual model modules for more info

web/models/README.md, after:

Overview
--------

These models are the interface to the underlying database. Currently all models are just Ecto schemas over a PostgreSQL database. Understanding the schemas and how they connect together is crucial to interacting with the database.


The current higher level connections are described in the model below:

```svgbob
                          +----------+
                          |  Region  |
                          +-----+----+
                                |
                                |
                                v 1
+------------+ +--------+ +-----------+ +--------------+
|  Allergen  | |  Diet  | |  Cuisine  | |  Ingredient  |
+----------+-+ +------+-+ +---+-------+ +-+------------+
           |          |       |           |
           .          |       |           .
            \         |       |          /
             \        |       |         /
              \       v M     v 1      /
               \  M +-------------+ M /
                .-->|  Item.Food  |<-.
                    +-------------+
```

An `Item.Food` can have many `Allergen`, `Diet`, and `Ingredient`, but only one `Cuisine`. These many relationships are exposed in `Item.Food.AllergenList`, `Item.Food.DietList`, and `Item.Food.IngredientList` respectively.

A `Cuisine` can have only one `Region`.


The above layout allows us to associate food with what allergies will be triggered from its consumption, what diets are allowed to consume it, what ingredients it consists of, and what style of cuisine it is. e.g. A plain pizza with ham might belong to the cuisine of type `Pizza` (which belongs to the regional style `Italian`), consists of the ingredients `mozzarella`, `ham`, `tomato sauce`, `flour`, `egg`, `yeast`, and so can't be eaten by people following any strict diet, or people with allergies to `gluten`, `egg`, and `meat`.

For more information on the individual models themselves, refer to their individual module documentation.


Translations
------------

Certain models store translatable data, this is done to allow for translatable searches for certain items and localised responses. Translations are currently implemented using the library [Translecto](https://github.com/ScrimpyCat/Translecto), for an in-depth look into how this library works see the [docs](https://hexdocs.pm/translecto/).

Translations are stored in separate models (ending with `Translation`). An example structure of these models is as follows:

```svgbob
+-----------+
| Diet      |               +-----------------------------------------+
+----+------+               | Diet.Name.Translation                   |
| id | name |               +--------------+-----------+--------------+
|----|------|               | translate_id | locale_id | term         |
| 1  | 2    +--.            |--------------|-----------|--------------|
| 2  | 3    |   \           | 1            | "en"      | "vegan"      |
+-----------+    .--------->| 2            | "en"      | "vegetarian" |
                  \         | 1            | "fr"      | "végétalien" |
                   '------->| 2            | "fr"      | "végétarien" |
                            +-----------------------------------------+
```

Where the `name` field contains the `translate_id` in the translation table. A `locale_id` is then needed to get the specific localised variant.

An example of manually querying all diet's in French could be done using the following expression:

```elixir
from diet in Diet,
    join: name in Diet.Name.Translation,
    on: diet.name == name.translate_id and name.locale_id == "fr",
    select: %{
        id: diet.id,
        name: name.term
    }
```

However the Translecto library provides a convenient interface to do the above:

```elixir
from diet in Diet,
    locale: "fr",
    translate: name in diet.name,
    select: %{
        id: diet.id,
        name: name.term
    }
```

### Locale

To translate the translatable models into a given localisation, a locale is provided. We have taken the approach of creating a model (`Bonbon.Model.Locale`) for the different locales, and they are in the format of culture codes (ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 and ISO 639-1 code).

To simplify lookup of the `locale_id`, the module provides functions to retrieve a `locale_id` for a given culture code. Two examples of this is as follows:

```elixir
from diet in Diet,
    locale: ^Locale.to_locale_id!("fr"),
    translate: name in diet.name,
    select: name.term

from diet in Diet,
    locales: ^Locale.to_locale_id_list!("en_AU"),
    translate: name in diet.name,
    select: name.term
```
